docs (workflows): 2D embeddings (#210)
encord-team/encord-active: docs/docs/workflows/using-2d-embeddings.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Using 2D Embeddings

> **Use 2D embeddings to leverage your active learning cycle**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Use 2D embeddings to improve your active learning cycle**
```

> Encord Active presents you 2D embedding plot for all the images in your project. You can use it to find interesting 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encord Active presents you with a 2D embedding plot for all the images in your project. You can use it to find interesting 
```

> clusters, understand your data better, weakly label your images, remove detrimental images and many more. 2D 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clusters, understand your data better, weakly label your images, remove detrimental images, etc. The 2D 
```

> embedding plot can be visualized in the **Explorer** pages of the **Data Quality** and **Label Quality** sections. Here is an example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
embedding plot can be found in the **Explorer** pages of the **Data Quality** and **Label Quality** sections. Here is an example
```

embedding plot for the COCO 2017 validation set.

![using-2d-embeddings-1](../images/workflows/using-2d-embeddings/using-2d-embeddings-1.png)

> You see how images can be clustered around certain regions. In order to visualize images in these clusters and learn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how images are clustered around certain regions. In order to visualize images in these clusters and learn
```

> what is common among these samples, you can use Box or Lasso Select on the upper right corner of the plot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
what is common among these samples, you can use the _Box_ or _Lasso Select_ in the upper right corner of the plot.
```

![using-2d-embeddings-2](../images/workflows/using-2d-embeddings/using-2d-embeddings-2.gif)

Once you select a region, the rest of the app (data distribution plot and main grid view of images) will be updated
accordingly. Now you can only visualize the images in the selected region. For the above selection, the selected region has
snowy images.

![img.png](../images/workflows/using-2d-embeddings/using-2d-embeddings-3.png)

Now you can perform several actions with the selected group:
- You can tag and export them in the **Actions** => **Filter & Export** page so that you can label these images 
automatically via a script.
- If you do not want them in your dataset for some reason, you can tag all the images and remove the tags from the
selected ones so that you can create a new version of your dataset without them. You can specifically apply this step

> for the images that you think including them will be detrimental.

Reviewer: I wouldn't mention the deleting part. I would probably make a less descriptive enumeration of
1. Data exploration
2. Soft labelling via tags
3. Tag subsets for labelling

Author: Did not quite understand the difference between 2 and 3. Wrote sth, feel free to change.

> Samples in the 2D embedding plot in the **Data Quality => Summary** page have no label information; therefore, they are all in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Samples in the 2D embedding plot in the **Data Quality => Summary** page have no label information; therefore, they all share
```

> the same color. On the other hand, it is colored according to labels on the **Label Quality => Summary** page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the same color. On the other hand, points colored according to labels on the **Label Quality => Summary** page. 
```

![using-2d-embeddings-4](../images/workflows/using-2d-embeddings/using-2d-embeddings-4.png)

Now you can:

> - check which classes are confused with each other
> - spot wrongly labeled samples (e.g., a different class inside the large cluster of another class)
> - detect outliers and remove them from the dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check which classes are confused with each other
- Spot wrongly labeled samples (e.g., a different class inside the large cluster of another class)
- Detect outliers and remove them from the dataset
```
